I study how these collect and transport
pollen back to their hives pollen is the
main source of protein and it bees diet
so it's really important that they're
able to collect enough of it for the
hive when they carry it they mix it with
nectar and carrying the form of
suspension so solid particles in the
liquid particle on their legs so I've
been studying the fluid properties of
that pellet that they form out of the
suspension and how it adheres to the leg
and I used SEM so scanning electron
micrographs to actually look at these
pellets really really close up and see
the pollen grains in the nectar the
volume fraction so the number of
particles per volume of this pellet is
the maximum for what is theoretically
possible so it's really impressive that
they're able without even really
thinking about it they're able to
maximize the number of pollen particles
they could bring back to the to the hive
I'm studying them from fluids
perspective as well and I was able to
measure the viscosity so how thick the
suspension is and I found that the
including the pollen in the nectar
increases the viscosity 10,000 times
from just nectar alone which is good
because if you think of something it's
has a low viscosity so it flows really
easily it'd be hard to get it to stick
to the leg it wouldn't stay
which would be really bad news for the
bee because it's been all this time
collecting pollen and then it would fall
off be very sad so and then from there I
looked at you know how strongly these
pellets are adhered to the wag so I did
this by gluing a leg to just a slide and
then gluing a wire to the pellet and
pulling it off with an elastic string so
the elastic string acts like a spring so
you can measure the amount that this
this string deflects and then you can
measure the force that way and I found
that the force to remove the basket is
24 times greater than any drag force of
the experiences while it's flying so
again good news because the bees not
going to lose the thing yet they work so
hard to to fill up and bring back to the
hive
among the various underwater vehicle
that we develop I was hired to develop
one which looks like squids and
octopuses the reason being that this
kind of animals are really cool they're
very good at swimming they have the
support amazing performances and they do
all these without having bones so it's
quite incredible this thing if you think
about that and if you were able to
design a vehicle really that it's
capable of matching the same kind of
performances at the same time not having
rigid structure inside really you could
use it throughout a whole range of
applications which right now
come on underwater vehicles cannot
really perform well yeah in fact they
look fairly biological yeah essentially
they are like a hollow shell of silicon
material but there are many ways of
designing that the one we're using now
is this pump and and the valve so that
you can basically inflate this body with
ambient fluid and then open the valve
and release this slug of fluid which
propels the vehicle
forward so really the design is very
very simple what makes it complicated is
really understanding the dynamics how
the CCT of the body interacts with the
fluid inside and outside all these
couple effects which is really the
amazing part of the work for the past
two years I have been working on the
problem which has been motivated by the
Deepwater Horizon spill and in
particular we were looking on how the
rotation of the earth affects the
dynamics of an oil my experimental setup
consists of a very large tank which
contains about one ton of water and it
is placed on a rotating turntable we
produce is a saltwater plumes or bubble
blooms and there is a cyclonic
circulation which forms around the plume
in the tank and when the plume plume hit
the bottom it starts to spread laterally
and once it starts to spread laterally
the a rotation inhibits its lateral
spreading so at some point the plume PA
undergoes a so-called Periclean
instability one of the critical point
here that we are arguing is the
importance of rotation of the earth and
that is quite the big hypothesis this is
effectively very small plume and it's
like it starts with that maybe 50
centimeter source at the top it might be
a few hundred meters maybe at the
surface so compared to a hurricane which
fills the rotation of the earth and
which spans hundreds of kilometers this
is extremely small so the main points
that we realized in experiments and in
the numerical summation is that because
the fluid is drawn from further and
further away conservation of angular
momentum forces then the rotation of the
earth to start playing a role but this
happens only after one rotation period
we try also in the consortium we have a
representative from BP we have people
who are in the remediation so those who
are like the first people to respond
when there is a crisis when there's an
emergency and they want to really use
this knowledge all the info
we starts understanding better so that
then they can act appropriately and as
effectively and as fast as possible
[Music]